# Neural network for impact location prediction

The goal of this project is to investigate if it is possible to predict the impact location of an object on a surface using data generated by piezoelectric sensors. This problem setting is of high interest for the aeronautics industry, to estimate the position of the fuselage where an external object has collided.
This project was developed as part of the Computational Intelligence course at [RWTH Aachen University](https://www.rwth-aachen.de).


Overview
-------
Several Artificial Neural Networks are developed and their performances are compared. The study first determined that the best architecture is a Convolution Neural Network (CNN) and then explored several techniques to maximize the accuracy of the predictions. These techniques include additional pre-processing methods, applying derivatives to the input data, applying a Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) to the input data, tuning of the model parameters, and interpolation of several high probability coordinate predictions. It was found that adding a Gaussian filter improved the accuracy a lot, but further amplification of input data through the use of derivatives and FFT decreased the final accuracy. The presented model is capable of predicting impact locations on a plate within an acceptable error tolerance. The average error for the prediction of 24 impacts was 5,5mm with the highest error being 10mm. Therefore, real impacts can be estimated up to some extent using the presented approach.

Requirements and installation
-------
The code is developed with **Python 3.8.12**. All the required Python packages can be installed in a new conda environment called *ilp_env* using `conda env create -f environment.yml`.
